<!-- META
{"title":"The Motivational Pull of Video Games: A Self-Determination Theory Approach","link":"https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11031-006-9051-8","media":"academic","tags":["game","psychology","sdt"],"short":{"en":"base SDT analysis upon game per-sec psychology. Says \"autonomy\" and \"competence\" is the core","ja":"ゲームプレイ中のSDT理論による基礎的分析。「主体感」と「達成感」が重要であると主張"},"importance":5,"hasPage":true,"createdAt":1717240630.21,"updatedAt":1717240630.21}
META -->

## Keywords

- SDT = Self-determination theory
  address factors undermine **motivation**

- CET = Cognitive evaluation theory  
  contextual factors that support **instrinsic** motivation
  Stating:

  - autonomy
  - competence

  support intrinsic motivation

- PENS = Player Experience of Need Satisfaction  
  a new measure of need satisfaction in play.  
  address both intrinsic and extrinsic motivation

- Autonomy  
   a sense of volition and willingness when doing a task

- Competence  
   a need for challenge and feelings of effectance

- Presence  
   a sense of being in the game world

- Intuitive controls  
   a sense of control over the game is **intuitive**

- Relatedness  
   a sense of connection to other players

## Study 1

### Hypothesis

**Gaming motivations and enjoyment** can be accounted for by **compotence** and **autonomy**.

### Method

Play **Mario 64**

Survey: **GPQ = Game Play Questionnaire**  
administered both pre- and post-play, inclusing **PENS**.

### Results

confirmed

## Study 2

### Research Question

What is the difference of top-ranked and worst-ranked games?

### Method

half played **zelda: ocarina of time**, half played **A Bug's Life**

GPQ used.

### Results

- **competence** and **autonomy** effects.

- **Intrinsic motivation** not enough to motivate players.  
  Game play must afford opportunities for need satisfaction in order for controls to be associated with enjoyment.

## Study 3

### Research Purpose

Examine main effect of **Individual differences** in **autonomy** and **competence**.

### Methods

each participant played 4 games:

- Mario 64
- Smash Bros
- Star Fox 64
- San Francisco Rush

GPQ used.

### Results

- **Considerable variance** between individuals in experience and motivation.

- Individuals played games with high **competence** and **autonomy**:
  - higher **self-esteem**
  - **positive mood**
  - more **value for the game**

## Study 4

Surveyed **MMORPG** players

### Method

GPQ

### Results

**Relatedness** is a significant factor for satisfaction.
