<!-- META
{"title":"ちょうぜつソフトウェア設計入門――PHPで理解するオブジェクト指向の活用","link":"https://gihyo.jp/book/2022/978-4-297-13234-7","media":"book","tags":["programming","design","architecture","software","softwarearchitecture"],"short":{"en":"Modern software architecture","ja":"モダンなソフトウェアアーキテクチャ解説書"},"importance":4,"hasPage":true,"createdAt":1717649862.924,"updatedAt":1719035491.254,"filename":"1717649862"}
META -->

## Onion Architecture
**Depend on the stabler module!!**

1. Domain Model  
The essence never changes. Depends only on the programming language and library.

2. Usecase  
What user wants to do

3. Interface/Adapter  
Convert domain data structure to data available for computer handling

4. Infrastructure  
Give each module a closed role and connect to the outside of the package.

## Package Principles
* REP = Reuse-Release Equivalent Principle  
再利用・リリース等価の原則  
Reuse what is only released. If you want to reuse your program, release (give stability to) it.

* CRP = Common Reuse Principle  
全利用の原則  
Reuse all of the code in the package. (Don't stuff too much into the package.)

* CCP = Common Closure Principle  
閉鎖性共通の原則  
One change, One package swap

* ADP = Acyclic Dependencies Principle  
非循環依存関係の原則  
No cyclic dependencies (Make them into a single package)

* SDP = Stable Dependencies Principle  
安定依存の原則  
**Always** depend on stabler package

* SAP = Stable Abstractions Principle  
安定度・抽象度等価の原則  
Stability = Abstraction Degree (interface / no concrete details / generality / programming language itself)

## Object-orientation
### What to do
#### capsulize
put **interconnected** information into a single object

#### The border of the capsule is the border of the abstraction

#### Delegation
Don't make an object do everything including outside its border

#### Law of Demeter; Tell, Don't Ask
Design an object to handle all requests without requiring any checking

#### polymorphism
design concrete classes an able to change behaviour without changing the calling code. (Without `if` statement)  

#### inheritance  
For dividing abstraction and implements, **not** for extending

### SOLID

#### SRP = Single Responsibility Principle
class : responsibility = 1 : 1

Consider responsibility for future changes in purpose.

#### OCP = Open Closed Principle
Open to extension, Close to changes.

Design a very abstract class (domain model) able to swap implementation easily.

#### LSP = Liskov Substitution Principle
Concrete class should **completely** cover the usage of the abstract class

#### ISP = Interface Segregation Principle
Class is an unit for module, but **interface is an unit for usage**

#### DIP = Dependency Inversion Principle
By using **interface**, the real controlling relation and the dependency relation will be opposite.

ex)  
real: Human controls computer  
code: `Computer` class calls `Human.control()`

