<!-- META
{"title":"デジタルゲーム研究","link":"https://www.amazon.co.jp/%E3%83%87%E3%82%B8%E3%82%BF%E3%83%AB%E3%82%B2%E3%83%BC%E3%83%A0%E7%A0%94%E7%A9%B6-%E5%90%89%E7%94%B0-%E5%AF%9B/dp/4130101579","media":"book","tags":["game"],"short":{"en":"yoshida’s book for game studies","ja":"吉田寛氏のゲームスタディーズ本"},"importance":5,"hasPage":true,"createdAt":1726076083.566,"updatedAt":1726076695.298,"filename":"1726076083"}
META -->

# Introduction

## Ludology

“The interest towards gameplay itself” independent from media.

### ludus

“a set of defined rules”

- several narratives pop out as a result
  - ludus is **active**
  - narrative is **passive**
- dividing between narrative and gameplay
  - gameplay was understood as narrative then

Juul(2001) “computer games’s strength is **not to story-tell** - game’s time differs from narrative - player and game-world relationship is different from narrative’s

Juul(2005) “Half Real”

- “videogames has 2 aspects: **rule** AND **fiction**”
- players understand game’s **fiction** world AND interact by **real rules** in the same time
- **The interaction between rules and fiction** is most important
  - fiction improves understanding of rules
  - rules improves imagination of fiction
  - this is **the core of fun**
- rule: from hardware to software

### Computer as media

- computer was just a "calculator"
  - Marya (2008) "game itself make people familiar with the computer"
- Why to study games? -> Newman (2013) "Game is the best available human-computer-interaction instance"
  - game was the entrance of the concept of **interactivity**
- Zimmerman (2013) "Computer didn't made the game. Game made the computer"

# 1. Scrolling

**aesthetics (感性学)**  
-> Play the game **just as a player** and describe **what you feeling**

**Scrolling**  
-> move the content on the screen and make an **illusion** of the spacial continuousity.

## history

- at the beginning, people didn't imagine "outside" of the screen
- **scrolling** started to make players to understand what there is outside the screen
  - first scrolling: "Speed Race" (Taito)
    - originated from analog electro-mechanical game "Super Road Seven"
  - "Crazy Crimer" (Nihon Bussan)
    - first "video gamific" scrolling
  - "Bomber" (Sega)
    - first **horizontal** scrolling
    - first concept of **height**
      - enabled "anti-air" and "anti-ground" in the same time

## Pattern of scroll

- forced scroll

  - Zebius (Namco)

- Free scroll
  - irreversible scroll
    - can go to one side, but no going back
    - Super Mario Bros. (Nintendo)
  - reversible scroll

## Effect

- player start to imagine the **wide / infinite** world out of the screen.

  - less task-oriented feeling
  - anxious

- horizontal-scrolling made **height**

  - engineers was struggling to make height
    - top-view + horizontal-scrolling is difficult
      - "Zebius" (Namco): the **latency** between shooting and arrival became the **height**

- sense of **time**
  - forced-scroll
    - time seems to be objective, cannot control.
  - free-scroll
    - time in the game matches with the player's feeling

## direction of scrolling

- what is difference of "left-scrolling" and "right-scrolling"?

  - "left-scrolling" has few games

  - hypothesis 1: **attention** flows from left-to-right

    - "F-pattern", "Z-pattern"

  - hypothesis 2: the physical allocation of controller
    - standard: "move by left-hand, and action by right-hand"
      - controlling character by **left**-hand -> character at **left** side
      - action by **right**-hand -> bullet shooted towards **right**hand side

- no problem with vertical-scrolling
  - because of gravity

# View-Point and space

## What is space?

- consisted of a single plane screen
  - common with movie / animation
    - but videogame is **dynamically** creating the spacial vision
      - similar to painting (creating vision from scratch)
      - far from movie or photography

### Classification of game space

- Only text, no spacial property
  - like text-adventure game
- encircled with a single screen
  - the very first videogames like "Pong"
- encircled with a single screen but the edge is connected by rap-around

  - going through right-edge means to pop out from left-edge

- have a connected area, but the screen only shows a single of them.
  - Japanese early ARPG, ex. "Zelda" (Nintendo)
- Scrollable with a single axis
  - mainly shooting game
- Scrollable with two axis
- Scrollable with z-axis
  - like "Dragon Quest" (Enix)
- spaces without connection shown on the screen in the same time
  - enable to **multiple** players battle
- independent planes became layers
  - gameplay in only one layer ("Moon Patrol")
  - go through several layers ("Warioland")
- interactive 3D space

- represented space "drawn on a map"
  - typically a "map" item

### Space and View

- drawing, photography, movie: view creates space

  - drawing: from artist
  - photography, movie: from camera

- view of games
  - no specific view
  - top-view
  - side-view
  - rear-view
  - quater-view
  - first-person-view

#### no specific view

- "Pong" space is made for "external" reason
  - why horizontal?  
    -> because the players alignment
- "Space Invader"
  - cannnot determine which side is the view. Aside? upwards?
- particular in very-early videogame
- _not a replication of physical world_
  - **just a positional relationships of objects**
